docs/scheduled_jobs.md, before:

# Scheduled Jobs
Below is a description of the various automated jobs that MetaDeploy has and how they can be configured.


## `cleanup_user_data`

Frequency: every minute

This job does four key things:

1. Sets the status of any jobs which were started but are past their timeout to "canceled" and updates the `canceled_at` and `exception` fields on the corresponding `Job` record.
2. Delete any OAuth tokens older than 10 minutes if the user doesn't have any running jobs currently. This can be configured with the TOKEN_LIFETIME_MINUTES environment variable.
3. Deletes all non-staff users that have not logged in for the last thirty days.
4. Clears the exception field in `Job` and `Preflight` records over 90 days old. (This field may contain customer metadata such as custom schema names from the org).

## `expire_preflight_results`

Frequency: every minute

Invalidates any preflight checks that were created more than 10 minutes ago. This can be configured to a custom value by setting the PREFLIGHT_LIFETIME_MINUTES environment variable.

## `calculate_average_plan_runtimes`

Frequency: daily

Calculates the average plan runtime for all plans, and then stores the value. Pages that need to reference plan runtime reference the calculated value for quicker page loads.

Commit message:

expire API tokens older than 30 days

docs/scheduled_jobs.md, after:

# Scheduled Jobs
Below is a description of the various automated jobs that MetaDeploy has and how they can be configured.


## `cleanup_user_data`

Frequency: every minute

This job does four key things:

1. Sets the status of any jobs which were started but are past their timeout to "canceled" and updates the `canceled_at` and `exception` fields on the corresponding `Job` record.
2. Delete any OAuth tokens older than 10 minutes if the user doesn't have any running jobs currently. This can be configured with the TOKEN_LIFETIME_MINUTES environment variable.
3. Deletes all non-staff users that have not logged in for the last thirty days.
4. Clears the exception field in `Job` and `Preflight` records over 90 days old. (This field may contain customer metadata such as custom schema names from the org).
5. Deletes any API tokens that are older than 30 days. The number of days can be configured with the API_TOKEN_EXPIRE_AFTER_DAYS environment variable.

## `expire_preflight_results`

Frequency: every minute

Invalidates any preflight checks that were created more than 10 minutes ago. This can be configured to a custom value by setting the PREFLIGHT_LIFETIME_MINUTES environment variable.

## `calculate_average_plan_runtimes`

Frequency: daily

Calculates the average plan runtime for all plans, and then stores the value. Pages that need to reference plan runtime reference the calculated value for quicker page loads.
